Document images built by CI and ART (#69)
openshift/ci-docs: content/en/docs/architecture/images.md

---
title: "OCP Builder Images"
date: 2020-01-22T23:27:39-04:00
draft: false
---

> Many components of OpenShift Container Platform 4 are tested and released as a container images (RPMs are outside the scope of this document). When a pull request for a component repository is created, a CI job builds any container images for the component using the code in the PR. We call these images _CI images_. When OCP is released as a product, component container images are built by the ART team using OSBS. We call these images _productized images_. In order to ensure that tests for pull requests give high fidelity signal for the final product, we ensure that the build process of the _CI images_ closely mirrors that of the _productized images_. This document overviews the build processes of _CI_ and _productized_ images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many components of OpenShift Container Platform 4 are tested and released as a container images. When a pull request for a component repository is created, a CI job builds any container images for the component using the code in the PR. We call these images _CI images_. When OCP is released as a product, component container images are built by the ART team using OSBS. We call these images _productized images_. In order to ensure that tests for pull requests give high fidelity signal for the final product, we ensure that the build process of the _CI images_ closely mirrors that of the _productized images_. This document overviews the build processes of _CI_ and _productized_ images.
```

Reviewer: The rest of the paragraph is very clear in what we will talk about in this doc - no need to talk about what we will *not* talk about

#skip other instructions
RUN make build --warn-undefined-variables

FROM registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/4.6:base
COPY --from=builder /go/src/github.com/openshift/cluster-etcd-operator/bindata/bootkube/bootstrap-manifests /usr/share/bootkube/manifests/bootstrap-manifests/
#skip other instructions
```

When the CI image is built, the images in `FROM` directives of `Dockerfile.rhel7` are replaced according to the `ci-operator` configuration above. Entries in `images.inputs` declare a mapping of image name to pull specification for replacement. In this example:

* `registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/builder:rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6` is replaced by the image named `ocp_builder_rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6`, which is imported in `base_images` from `registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/builder:rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6`. This is colloquially known as _the builder image_.
* `registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/4.6:base` is replaced by the image named `base`, which is imported in `base_images` from `registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/4.6:base`. This is colloquially known as _the base image_.

## Productized Images

> Build configuration for productized images is stored in the [`ocp-build-data` repository](https://github.com/openshift/ocp-build-data). For example, [`images/cluster-etcd-operator.yml`](https://github.com/openshift/ocp-build-data/blob/openshift-4.6/images/cluster-etcd-operator.yml) in the `openshift-4.6` branch defines the build of the productized image for the 4.6 `cluster-etcd-operator`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build configurations for productized images is stored in the [`ocp-build-data` repository](https://github.com/openshift/ocp-build-data). For example, [`images/cluster-etcd-operator.yml`](https://github.com/openshift/ocp-build-data/blob/openshift-4.6/images/cluster-etcd-operator.yml) in the `openshift-4.6` branch defines the build of the productized image for the 4.6 `cluster-etcd-operator`. 
```

  rhel:
    image: openshift/ose-base:rhel8.2.els.rhel
    upstream_image: registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/builder:rhel-8-base-openshift-{MAJOR}.{MINOR}
  ```

  The ART team mirrors all images, such as `golang`, `golang-1.14`, and `rhel` defined in `streams.yml`, to `registry.ci.openshift.org`. The `upstream_image` field defines the reference of the mirrored image. Those images are colloquially known as _the ART equivalent images_ to ensure CI images are built from the exact same images as productized images.

## Ensuring Identical Image Builds
While the CI and productized image builds are configured in two separate places, a number of automatic processes exist to ensure that the container images built in both environments are identical. Automation enforces that the same build manifest (Dockerfile) is used to define the image in both systems. Furthermore, automation also ensures that the builder images and base images that are used in CI are identical to those used by ART when building productized container images in OSBS. Therefore, with identical container build manifests and input container images, identical builds run in CI and the productized environment.

> Moreover, a developer can build the same container image locally as well if the image build tool such as `docker` or `podman` has the [permission of pulling the images](/docs/how-tos/use-registries-in-build-farm/#how-do-i-log-in-to-pull-images-that-require-authentication) used in the build manifest. The images in `ocp` namespace are open to all authenticated users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, a developer can build the same container image locally as well if the image build tool such as `docker` or `podman` has [permission to pull the images](/docs/how-tos/use-registries-in-build-farm/#how-do-i-log-in-to-pull-images-that-require-authentication) used in the build manifest. The images in `ocp` namespace are open to all authenticated users.
```

## Determining Go Versions

> In the above example, the build of `cluster-etcd-operator` uses Go 1.15 to build the image, as configured in `streams.yml`. When the version of Go used to build OCP changes. the ART team will modify the version configured in `ocp-build-data` centrally for the whole product at once. Then, automation will create pull requests to update `Dockerfile`s in component repositories and their CI configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, the build of `cluster-etcd-operator` uses Go 1.15 to build the image, as configured in `streams.yml`. When the version of Go used to build OCP changes, the ART team will modify the version configured in `ocp-build-data` centrally for the whole product at once. Then, automation will create pull requests to update `Dockerfile`s in component repositories and their CI configuration:
```

> * a PR to the component repository modifies the `FROM` directive in `Dockerfile`. CI jobs on this pull request will reflect the use of the new Go version and repository administrators are expected to monitor the change, merging it if appropriate or landing changes as necessary to merge the change themselves. After code freeze in the release, any un-updated `FROM` entries become blocker bugs for the release. If an OCP component cannot migrate to the new toolchain version, the owner has to get the approval from the architecture team and then communicate with the ART team. In this case, the ART team will modify the builder image of the component in `ocp-build-data` and the created PR to the component repository can be closed. For example, `cluster-etcd-operator` has to use `golang-1.14`. `images/cluster-etcd-operator.yml` will has the following stanza:

Reviewer: These are pretty long and should just be paragraphs, not bullets. Something like:

```
Then, automation will create pull requests to update Dockerfiles in component repositories and their CI configuration.

First, a pull request is filed to the component repository, where it modifies the FROM directive...
```

> * a PR to the component repository modifies the `FROM` directive in `Dockerfile`. CI jobs on this pull request will reflect the use of the new Go version and repository administrators are expected to monitor the change, merging it if appropriate or landing changes as necessary to merge the change themselves. After code freeze in the release, any un-updated `FROM` entries become blocker bugs for the release. If an OCP component cannot migrate to the new toolchain version, the owner has to get the approval from the architecture team and then communicate with the ART team. In this case, the ART team will modify the builder image of the component in `ocp-build-data` and the created PR to the component repository can be closed. For example, `cluster-etcd-operator` has to use `golang-1.14`. `images/cluster-etcd-operator.yml` will has the following stanza:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* a PR to the component repository modifies the `FROM` directive in `Dockerfile`. CI jobs on this pull request will reflect the use of the new Go version and repository administrators are expected to monitor the change, merging it if appropriate or landing changes as necessary to merge the change themselves. After code freeze in the release, any un-updated `FROM` entries become blocker bugs for the release. If an OCP component cannot migrate to the new toolchain version, the owner has to get the approval from the architecture team and then communicate with the ART team. In this case, the ART team will modify the builder image of the component in `ocp-build-data` and the created PR to the component repository can be closed. For example, if `cluster-etcd-operator` had to use `golang-1.14`, `images/cluster-etcd-operator.yml` would be updated to contain the following stanza:
```

  ```yaml
  from:
    builder:
    - stream: golang-1.14
  ```

* a PR to the `openshift/release` repository modifies the CI configuration to allow builds with the new Go version to be as efficient as possible. This PR is merged automatically.

{{< alert title="Info" color="info" >}}
To avoid triggering a thundering herd of CI jobs when the Go toolchain changes centrally for OCP, pull requests to component repositories that change `FROM` entries are made slowly. It may take up to a day to complete this process for all repositories.
{{< /alert >}}

> The productized images are always built with the builder images defined in ocp-build-data, no matter whether component authors merge pull requests that change `FROM` entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The productized images are always built with the builder images defined in `ocp-build-data`, no matter whether component authors merge pull requests that change `FROM` entries.
```

> As two pull requests are created to reflect changes in the Go toolchain, it is possible for them to merge in either order. The CI system will be self-consistent and correct in either case. When only one of the changes (to `FROM` entries in the component repository and to `ci-operator` configuration in `openshift/release`) has merged, container image builds in CI will use the correct (newer) Go toolchain, but will simply be less efficient than they might be. This intermediate state will have an inconsistency between the base_images entry in ci-operator configuration and the `FROM` entries in the repository but this may be ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As two pull requests are created to reflect changes in the Go toolchain, it is possible for them to merge in either order. The CI system will be self-consistent and correct in either case. When only one of the changes (to `FROM` entries in the component repository and to `ci-operator` configuration in `openshift/release`) has merged, container image builds in CI will use the correct (newer) Go toolchain, but will simply be less efficient than they would be when both pull requests merge. This intermediate state will have an inconsistency between the `base_images` entry in `ci-operator` configuration and the `FROM` entries in the repository but this may be ignored.
```

Author: Modified a bit according to https://github.com/openshift/ci-docs/pull/69#discussion_r565011249

## Best Practice

> * Merge the PR to the component repo as soon as possible to use the new version of GoLang toolchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Merge the PR to the component repo as soon as possible to use the new version of Golang toolchain.
```

> * Do not override manually the replacement rules of the builder and base images in CI configuration and let automation do its job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Do not manually override the replacement rules of the builder and base images in CI configuration and let automation do its job.
```

> * Only manage ocp-build-data for base and builder images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Determine which base and builder images your component builds with in the `ocp-build-data` repository.
```

> * Configure `build_root` using via `.ci-operator.yaml` in the component repo (see `build_root.from_repository` in [the documentation](/docs/architecture/ci-operator/#build-root-image)). Although it is not enforced, it is suggested to use the same version of `GoLang` in `build_root` as the builder image.

Reviewer: This should IMO be it's own separate section. For users who *need* some non-standard version of Go or who *must* change the version of Go in their repos while also changing other content in the repo, this is a valid approach. This approach answers the question of "how do I control the version of Go used in my repository" or similar

---
title: "OCP Builder Images"
date: 2020-01-22T23:27:39-04:00
draft: false
---

> Many components of OpenShift Container Platform 4 are tested and released as a container images. When a pull request for a component repository is created, a CI job builds any container images for the component using the code in the PR. We call these images _CI images_. When OCP is released as a product, component container images are built by the ART team using OSBS. We call these images _productized images_. In order to ensure that tests for pull requests give high fidelity signal for the final product, we ensure that the build process of the _CI images_ closely mirrors that of the _productized images_. This document overviews the build processes of _CI_ and _productized_ images.

Reviewer 2: nit: s/as a container images/as container images/

Author: Thanks. Updated.

---
title: "OCP Builder Images"
date: 2020-01-22T23:27:39-04:00
draft: false
---

> Each component of OpenShift Container Platform is tested and released as a container image. When a pull request for the component repo is created, a CI job builds the image for the component based on the PR. We call this type of images _CI images_. When the OCP is released as a product, the image of each component is built by ART team. We call those images _ART images_. In this document, we illustrate the build process of those images.

Reviewer 3: Didn't see Steve's review. Feel free to prefer his wording.

> Each component of OpenShift Container Platform is tested and released as a container image. When a pull request for the component repo is created, a CI job builds the image for the component based on the PR. We call this type of images _CI images_. When the OCP is released as a product, the image of each component is built by ART team. We call those images _ART images_. In this document, we illustrate the build process of those images.

Author: Combined 2 comments.

```yaml
base_images:
  base:
    name: "4.6"
    namespace: ocp
    tag: base
  ocp_builder_rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6:
    name: builder
    namespace: ocp
    tag: rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6
images:
- dockerfile_path: Dockerfile.rhel7
  from: base
  inputs:
    ocp_builder_rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6:
      as:
      - registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/builder:rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6
  to: cluster-etcd-operator
```

where `Dockerfile.rhel7` in the repo looks like

```Dockerfile
FROM registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/builder:rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6 AS builder
#skip other instructions
RUN make build --warn-undefined-variables

FROM registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/4.6:base
COPY --from=builder /go/src/github.com/openshift/cluster-etcd-operator/bindata/bootkube/bootstrap-manifests /usr/share/bootkube/manifests/bootstrap-manifests/
#skip other instructions
```

When the CI image is built, the images in `From` directives of `Dockerfile.rhel7` are replaced according to the `ci-operator`'s configuration above:

> * `registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/builder:rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6` is replaced by `ocp_builder_rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/builder:rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6` is replaced by the image named `ocp_builder_rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6`, which is imported in `base_images` from `registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/builder:rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6`. This is colloquially known as the builder image.
```

> * `registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/4.6:base` is replaced by `base`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/4.6:base` is replaced by the image named `base`, which is imported in `base_images` from `registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/4.6:base`. This is colloquially known as the base image.
```

> where `ocp_builder_rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6` and `base` are defined in `base_images`:

Reviewer: Delete this section - and we do not really care to explain mirroring and cluster-local images here. It's not important to this topic IMHO - a user should not worry about it.

* `base` is `ocp/4.6:base` in the [registry of the cluster in the build farm](/docs/how-tos/use-registries-in-build-farm/) where the job is running. The image is mirrored from `registry.ci.openshift.org`. Hence, the image used in the CI build is the same as `registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/4.6:base` in `Dockerfile.rhel7`.
* `ocp_builder_rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6` is `registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/builder:rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6`, also the same image as in `Dockerfile.rhel7`.

We use the mirrored images in the local registry instead of pulling images from `registry.ci.openshift.org` for better efficiency.

> ## ART Images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Productized Images
```

> How the ART images are built is defined in the [ocp-build-data](https://github.com/openshift/ocp-build-data) repo. For example, [cluster-etcd-operator.yml](https://github.com/openshift/ocp-build-data/blob/openshift-4.6/images/cluster-etcd-operator.yml) in the `images` folder at branch `openshift-4.6` defines the build of the ART image for `cluster-etcd-operator`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build configuration for productized images is stored in the [`ocp-build-data` repository](https://github.com/openshift/ocp-build-data). For example, [`images/cluster-etcd-operator.yml`](https://github.com/openshift/ocp-build-data/blob/openshift-4.6/images/cluster-etcd-operator.yml) in the `openshift-4.6` branch defines the build of the productized image for the 4.6 `cluster-etcd-operator`. 
```

```yaml
content:
  source:
    dockerfile: Dockerfile.rhel7
    git:
      branch:
        target: release-{MAJOR}.{MINOR}
      url: git@github.com:openshift-priv/cluster-etcd-operator.git
from:
  builder:
  - stream: golang
  member: openshift-enterprise-base
```

{{< alert title="Info" color="info" >}}

> As noticed, the github organization `openshift-priv` is used. Every commits merged to any repo of `openshift` is merged to the counterpart repo of `openshift-priv` as well. The role of `openshift-priv` is out of the scope of this page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Productized images are built by ART from repositories in the `openshift-priv` GitHub organization. This organization holds mirrors of public repositories in the `openshift` organization while allowing for private patches for embargoed CVEs. Treat the `openshift-priv` organization as equivalent to `openshift`; more details are out of the scope of this page.
```

Do we have a doc to link here?

Author: Updated. Added the link too.

{{< /alert >}}

The above snippet defines

> * where to get `Dockerfile` of the build: `Dockerfile.rhel7` in `release-{MAJOR}.{MINOR}` branch of repo cloned from `git@github.com:openshift-priv/cluster-etcd-operator.git`. The branch name `release-{MAJOR}.{MINOR}` is resolved by the branch name of the `cluster-etcd-operator.yml` file. In the example, it is `release-4.6`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* where to get the build manifest: `Dockerfile.rhel7` in the `release-{MAJOR}.{MINOR}` branch of the `git@github.com:openshift-priv/cluster-etcd-operator.git` repository. Note: the variables in the branch name (`release-{MAJOR}.{MINOR}`) are resolved by [TODO: THIS COMES FROM SOME GROUP FILE IN THE BRANCH]. In the example, it is `release-4.6`.
```

> * how to replace the images in `From` directives of `Dockerfile.rhel7`: `registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/builder:rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6` is replaced by `golang` and `registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/4.6:base` is by `openshift-enterprise-base`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* how to replace the images in `FROM` directives of the build manifest: `registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/builder:rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6` is replaced by `golang` and `registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/4.6:base` is by `openshift-enterprise-base`. 
```

Reviewer: Where are these two things configured in `ocp-build-data`?

Author: Updated.

> ## CI Images VS. ART Images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Ensuring Identical Image Builds
```

> ## CI Images VS. ART Images

Reviewer 3: I identify 3 types of images:
- CI Images (which you define)
- ART Images - images that ART builds for production releases
- ART Equivalent Images - Images that ART has made available in the CI environment so that upstream components can build atop the exact same base image packages & build images as they do downstream.

The mapping of downstream image to ART equivalent image can be found here: https://github.com/openshift/ocp-build-data/blob/openshift-4.6/streams.yml . For example, if an image uses `rhel` in its 4.6 image metadata configuration, upstream it would use: https://github.com/openshift/ocp-build-data/blob/bc10659958fc40902ffe2be6b5c86ed183aa1d25/streams.yml#L35 . This image would be called the "ART Equivalent Image" for 4.6's `rhel` stream. 

ART handles building an mirroring these images out. They are the images upstream PRs are opened to refer to.

Author: Updated.

> From the above introduction, for each component, the CI image and the ART image are built from the same `Dockerfile` (DPTP has automation to refresh the `Dockerfile` path and name in the `ci-operator`'s configuration if either of them is modified in `ocp-build-data`). They are the same image if the images in `From` directives of `Dockerfile` are replaced by the same images. Actually, it is the case. In the above example, 

Reviewer: IMO replace this section with:

While the CI and productized image builds are configured in two separate places, a number of automatic processes exist to ensure that the container images built in both environments are identical. Automation enforces that the same build manifest (`Dockerfile`) is used to define the image in both systems. Furthermore, automation also ensures that the builder images and base images that are used in CI are identical to those used by ART when building productized container images in OSBS. Therefore, with identical container build manifests and input container images, identical builds run in CI and the productized environment. Moreover, a developer can build the same container image locally, as well. [TODO: we should doc that - they need extra pull secrets I think?]

Author: Updated.

ART **ensures** that `registry.ci.openshift.org/ocp/builder:rhel-8-golang-1.15-openshift-4.6` is the same as `golang` in the ART build and `openshift-enterprise-base` is also an OCP component. Moreover, building the image from `Dockerfile` on a developer's computer leads to the same image as well.

> ## GoLang Version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Determining Go Versions
```

> As in the above example, the OCP component `cluster-etcd-operator` uses `GoLang-1.15` to build the image. When the version is evolved, ART team will modify the `GoLang` version in `ocp-build-data`, e.g., `GoLang-1.16`. Then, DPTP automation will create pull requests when it detects that `Dockerfile` in the component repo uses a different `GoLang` version from what is expected by `ocp-build-data`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, the build of `cluster-etcd-operator` uses Go 1.15 to build the image, as configured in the [TODO: WHICH FILE IN THE OCP-BUILD-DATA REPO DOES THIS?]. When the version of Go used to build OCP changes. the ART team will modify the version configured in `ocp-build-data` centrally for the whole product at once. Then, DPTP automation will create pull requests to update `Dockerfile`s in component repositories and their CI configuration:
```

> As in the above example, the OCP component `cluster-etcd-operator` uses `GoLang-1.15` to build the image. When the version is evolved, ART team will modify the `GoLang` version in `ocp-build-data`, e.g., `GoLang-1.16`. Then, DPTP automation will create pull requests when it detects that `Dockerfile` in the component repo uses a different `GoLang` version from what is expected by `ocp-build-data`:

Reviewer 3: ART owns this automation now.
```suggestion
As in the above example, the OCP component `cluster-etcd-operator` uses `GoLang-1.15` to build the image. When the version is evolved, ART team will modify the `GoLang` version in `ocp-build-data`, e.g., `GoLang-1.16`. Then, ART automation will create pull requests when it detects that `Dockerfile` in the component repo uses a different `GoLang` version from what is expected by `ocp-build-data`:
```

Author: Removed the owner of the automation: Probably readers don't care about it. :)

> * a PR (`PR1`) to the component repo: modify `From` directives of `Dockerfile`. It is up to the owner of the component whether or not to merge the PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* a PR to the component repository modifies the `FROM` directive in `Dockerfile`s. CI jobs on this pull request will reflect the use of the new Go version and repository administrators are expected to monitor the change, merging it if appropriate or landing changes as necessary to merge the change themselves.
```

> * a PR (`PR2`) to the `openshift/release` repo: modify the `ci-operator`'s configuration. This PR is merged automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* a PR to the `openshift/release` repository modifies the CI configuration to allow builds with the new Go version to be as efficient as possible. This PR is merged automatically.
```

> * a PR (`PR2`) to the `openshift/release` repo: modify the `ci-operator`'s configuration. This PR is merged automatically.

Reviewer 3: This part would indeed be DPTP automation.

{{< alert title="Info" color="info" >}}

> To avoid a large number of jobs triggered at the same time from PRs created from OCP components up to `GoLang` version change, the automation creates `PR1`s in sequence. It usually takes 1 or 2 days to complete this process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid triggering a thundering herd of CI jobs when the Go toolchain changes centrally for OCP, pull requests to component repositories that change `FROM` entries are made slowly. It may take up to a day to complete this process for all repositories.
```

{{< /alert >}}

> Depending on when `PR1`s are merged, ART could use different versions of `GoLang` to build images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on when component authors merge pull requests that change `FROM` entries, it is possible that ART will use a different Go toolchain for productized image builds than CI uses to build component images.  Before code freeze, ART will use the older toolchain if fewer than half of components have updated their `FROM` entries. Otherwise, the newer toolchain will be used. After code freeze, ART will use the newer toolchain for all components, regardless of how many repositories have updated their `FROM` entries. At this point in the release, any un-updated `FROM` entries become blocker bugs for the release.
```

Author: Updated according to https://github.com/openshift/ci-docs/pull/69/files#r563885547

Originally from https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/blob/master/enhancements/art/flexibly-enforcing-product-build-constraints-in-ci.md#design-details

> * Before code freeze: if less than half of the components merge `PR1`s, ART uses the old version `GoLang-1.15`. Otherwise, the new version `GoLang-1.16` for every component that has merged `PR1` and the old version `GoLang-1.15` for every component that has not.

Reviewer: Let's just prefer sentences and paragraphs - not everything needs to be bullet list.

> * Before code freeze: if less than half of the components merge `PR1`s, ART uses the old version `GoLang-1.15`. Otherwise, the new version `GoLang-1.16` for every component that has merged `PR1` and the old version `GoLang-1.15` for every component that has not.

Reviewer 3: This is a future state that we are working toward. At present, ART will always use the builder images defined in ocp-build-data.

Author: Updated.

* After code freeze: the new version `GoLang-1.16` for all components, no mather if their `PR1`s have merged. Note that for each component that has not yet merged its `PR1` at this point, there is a blocker bug for the coming OCP release.

{{< alert title="Warning" color="warning" >}}

> When `PR1` is created, the owner of the component should check its jobs to see how they get along with the new `GoLang` version. If an OCP component cannot migrate to the new version for the coming OCP release, the owner has to communicate with the ART team for this exceptional case after getting the approval from the architecture team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Merging changes to `FROM` entries to use new Go toolchain versions is the responsibility of the component authors. If an OCP component cannot migrate to the new toolchain version, the owner has to communicate with the ART team in order to secure an exception from the architects. [TODO: IS THIS DOCUMENTED]??
```

Author: Updated according to `Day 20` of https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/blob/master/enhancements/art/flexibly-enforcing-product-build-constraints-in-ci.md#design-details

> {{< /alert >}}

Reviewer: Where's the documentation for how to configure the Go version from your repo?

Author: Updated.

> CI images are built more closed to what `Dockerfile` defines in the component repo. E.g., after `PR2` is merged, the `ci-operator`'s configuration for `cluster-etcd-operator` looks like the following:

Reviewer: I would remove this section and just say something like:

As two pull requests are created to reflect changes in the Go toolchain, it is possible for them to merge in either order. The CI system will be self-consistent and correct in either case. When only one of the changes (to `FROM` entries in he component repository and to `ci-operator` configuration in `openshift/release`) has merged, container image builds in CI will use the correct (newer) Go toolchain, but will simply be less efficient than they might be.

Author: Updated with your comment. BUT,

I thought I understood (after talking to you in a gmeeting). Probably still not.

Is the old version used in this case?

In case of
- change to FROM entries in the component repository has NOT merged, and
- change to ci-operator configuration in openshift/release has merged

That means ci config has `1.16` (the new version) as inputs which attempts to replace `1.15` (the older version) in Dockerfile.
We use the inputs as `build.spec.source.images.as`.

```bash
$ oc explain build.spec.source.images.as
KIND:     Build
VERSION:  build.openshift.io/v1

FIELD:    as <[]string>

DESCRIPTION:
     A list of image names that this source will be used in place of during a
     multi-stage container image build. For instance, a Dockerfile that uses
     "COPY --from=nginx:latest" will first check for an image source that has
     "nginx:latest" in this field before attempting to pull directly. If the
     Dockerfile does not reference an image source it is ignored. This field and
     paths may both be set, in which case the contents will be used twice.
```

 That is "If the Dockerfile does not reference an image source it is ignored", right?
So CI images is built from `1.15` as defined in the Dockerfile in the repo.

Author: The above is the builder image: `Dockerfile` in component repo rules.

The base image is the opposite: ci-config rules
```
$ oc explain build.spec.strategy.dockerStrategy.from
KIND:     Build
VERSION:  build.openshift.io/v1

RESOURCE: from <Object>

DESCRIPTION:
     from is a reference to an DockerImage, ImageStreamTag, or ImageStreamImage
     which overrides the FROM image in the Dockerfile for the build. If the
     Dockerfile uses multi-stage builds, this will replace the image in the last
     FROM directive of the file.

     ObjectReference contains enough information to let you inspect or modify
     the referred object.
```

Reviewer: Yes, that is correct - in this case we will have a replacement rule in `ci-operator` configuration that does nothing, since there is no matching entry in the `Dockerfile`.

> CI images are built more closed to what `Dockerfile` defines in the component repo. E.g., after `PR2` is merged, the `ci-operator`'s configuration for `cluster-etcd-operator` looks like the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
CI images are built more closely to the content of the `Dockerfile` in the component repo. E.g., after `PR2` is merged, the `ci-operator`'s configuration for `cluster-etcd-operator` looks like the following:
```

Author: Updated according to https://github.com/openshift/ci-docs/pull/69/files#r563864165
